# Entity B

This is the perfect hotel for both leisure and business stays and is a welcome breath of fresh air for the hospitality industry. You can walk across the park near the hotel to a number of restaurants. The hotel's rooms are modern, adequately sized.and competitively priced. It is even possible to see the Bosphorous from some of the rooms. The staff based at the hotel were generally good, but there were some instances of unprofessional conduct. Unfortunately the dial-up service to access the internet is a paid service. Additionally the gym is pretty small but it's fine for a quick workout.

The Conrad hotel warmly greets its guests upon arrival and are far beyond the expected norms when it comes to hospitality. The hotel is just across a park from many popular restaurants. At this hotel the rooms are of a decent size with modern facilities and look. The views are good from the room and the price was a competitive rate. For the most part the staff at this hotel are really great and make you feel very welcome, especially with personalised messages and general friendliness. They handled any requests efficiently and had plenty of recommendations for resources. All meals here were delicious however they shut down the bar at a designated hour. The hotel has a small gym on site which is ideal for a workout. Some of the floors on the hotel you will need to pay for dial-up internet.

The Conrad hotel is great for business or pleasure and the staff greets its guests with personalized attention the moment they arrive which is so rare these days. This location is quite out of the way so it is best to book somewhere close to where you plan to visit. The area's small restaurants are local university students' favourites so that is something to bear in mind. The rooms at this hotel are modern, clean, and nice. Views of the courtyard are lacking inspiration where the picturesque scenery of the Bosphorous was lovely. The staff offered a very friendly service along with a personalized message from the manager to warmly welcome visitors to The Conrad, Istanbul. They were efficient and quick and informative about everything available to guests of the hotel. Delicious food that you can enjoy while looking over at some fantastic views of the Bosporus. This hotel provides a small gym that can be convenient for those wanting to complete a quick work out. Although the location of the hotel is slightly out of the way, it is still suitable for those visiting for business.