# Entity B

The hotel looks a bit dated but overall a good place to stay. The hotel is located on a hillside and has views of the Bosphorous. The rooms are really big and spacious as well as refurnished and clean. As well as a nice room the bathroom is also of a great size. The staff at the hotel were very attentive. The food is okay enough but there are quite high prices. The hotel does provide internet access for guests, but it is steeply priced at $25 per day.

Whilst it looks a little outdated the hotel provides a great experience, therefore it is highly recommended. The hotel's location is pretty good with some good restaurants and shopping nearby. There is a good view and great access to the river, too. The hotel rooms are large and fully furnished . The bathrooms are also spacious with all of the expected amenities. The staff are so attentive and they keep the hotel nice and clean. The hotel has a varied choice of restaurants available , but the coffee shop and food in general are not up to regular Turkish standards. The highlights of this hotel would be the turn-down service in the evenings (they would even provide fresh bathrobes, which is a great added touch.) Whilst the in-room internet service costs a lot of money there are some really great views from the hotel.

A highly recommended hotel that has luxuries such as its own spa for guests to enjoy. A great experience to be had here, although the outside of the hotel could do with being updated. The location at this hotel is great. It sits on a hillside with 60 acres of garden to enjoy and offers fantasic views of the whole Bosphorus as well as being close to several restaurants and shopping. The rooms at this hotel are particularly large and spacious. The bathroom in particular is of a decent size. It has been refurnished and includes all amenities. The staff at this hotel are very good at paying to the needs of their guests, and the on site security make you feel safe with the guard house, barriers and metal detector to get to the reception. The quality of the food at this hotel is good, and there is a good selection of restaurants to choose from. However, the food can be pricey and it doesn't quite meet Turkish standards. The cost of $25 per day for in-room internet service is a drawback.