# Entity A

This lovely and charming hotel can be busy during September time. This hotel is nicely located in quiet neighborhood and also close to the best things to do in Venice. The room were clean but it seems more like a dorm than a hotel room. You need to spend extra 20 euro for an upgrade. Very friendly owners. While the breakfast is basic here the breakfast area is quite small and it gets filled up fast, there are lots of places near by; the staff will even make a reservation for you. The local boat trip to Murano is worth it but the advice would be to go on the normal boat.

The hotel is generally good but may be a little difficult to find. The hotel really nicely located off the beaten path, hidden away in a quiet neighborhood. It is great once you get your bearings in Venice and is close to everything but the trip to Murano, though free, is not good. The room was clean with a good price for Venice. It was more of a dorm room than a hotel room away from the main hotel but we were eventually able to get a lovely room for an additional cost. The owners of this hotel were very friendly. The hotel offers a basic breakfast but the room is too small and fills quickly. There are places to eat nearby but you can also book a place in the restaurant. One boat tried was the size of a box so if going to Murano, go on the normal boat.

This is a charming hotel with several factories and shops nearby to give you choices in your shopping experience. Even during the busy September season, it is a enjoyable experience. And don't worry about being able to find it. It's no drama to locate and everyone will enjoy their stay. The hotel was well located and right on the Grand Canal. The hotel was located off of the beaten path so you can avoid a lot of tourists. The location was central for the main water boat routes too. The room was lovely, although across from the main hotel. It was a second floor corner room that was a bit smaller than anticipated, but at a good price and very clean. The owners of the hotel were welcoming. The hotel's breakfast was adequate although a little basic. The hotel can book the restaurant for you at your preferred time. The best way for hotel guests to go to Murano is by normal boat.