# Entity A

The price of staying at this hotel was reasonable. The hotel is located in the city centre and right next to a canal. The rooms of the hotel can be small and with little beds. The rooms are good value and are clean and well furnished. The continental breakfast was a bit limited but it did taste great and it was provided by the hotel for free. The hotel did provide free internet access. However, be warned of the steep stairs if you have heavy luggage. The hotel is gay friendly, but there are homosexual pornographic materials left out in public areas.

This hotel is reasonably priced and has great style to it. It will provide a perfect stay. The hotel is centrally located therefore close to everything and for the price it really makes this hotel great. The rooms are very nice and clean but be sure to book a large room or you will end up with small beds. The hotel provided a complimentary Continental breakfast with hot drinks available at all times. Food is served in a reserved dining room. Hotels here are not cheap and very often are quite small. In this hotel there are quite steep stairs that make large suitcases quite hard work.

A really nice hotel with ok prices and a unique style. The location is idyllic for those wanting to explore the area, as it is in close proximity to the city centre and station, with many of the main attractions only walking distance from the hotel. The room is nice but a little small. They are of a good value though and features nice high-quality furnishings. A great continental breakfast provided at this hotel, with a varied selection of foods. Although not quite a buffet style breakfast that some may prefer, all food and drink comes free as part of the guest's stay here. Not cheap, smallish rooms and steep stairs so take care.