# Entity B

Overall the stay was pleasant enough at this unusual stand-out hotel. Would recommend and also come back again. This hotel is perfectly situated for access to the main city as well as for a peaceful walk or job along the waterfront nearby. Additionally there are some restaurants and deli shops not far away that many locals tend to visit. Some rooms in the hotel have an open toilet in the room which may be an issue for some. There is complimentary internet provided in rooms. The staff at the hotel were often unfriendly and did not finish tasks. The restaurant at the hotel is good, but the wines can be expensive by the glass.

The hotel was a unique, historical building and different from your standard fare. It is worth noting that the walls and floors were damaged though. The hotel is a few stops on the tram to the centre of the city. There are restaurants, shops and delis all close to the hotel. Whilst the quirky room had decent, working and free internet, it did not make up for how dirty the room was overall. The staff are sometimes helpful and sweet but forget to finish tasks and can be unfriendly at times. The hotel restaurant has a nice choice of wines but the meals cost a bit too much. It was ok. There is a very nice fish shop in the mall though. This hotel is unfortunately really expensive especially when compared to the performance of the hotel.

The hotel is in an old building. The walls and floors were damaged but it was still nice. The hotel's location is close to the tram line and train station which can take you into the city. There are many restaurants and grocery stores and delis to visit if you want to see some of the local life. The waterfront is also close by for a walk or run. The rooms at this hotel are okay. Free Wi-Fi is on offer, and they are large and very comfortable. The main issue with these rooms is that they have an open toilet, which isn't idea when there is more than one person occupying a room. They could also do with being cleaned more regularly as they are quite dirty. The service is to an average standard. Staff are not always friendly and there can be a language barrier. The restaurant at this hotel serves reasonable food, however it can be quite expensive. Thievery occurred from locked luggage.