# Entity A

Highly recommended hotel that you will want to come back to because it is definitely five-star. The hotel is only a minute from the beach in both directions. The hotel also has a rooftop pool with a view of the sea too. The hotel is located near to the Port Olympic and Barcelonetta. There is also a fitness park a two minute walk away. The hotel room had a good bathroom, but the pillows and linen were a bit uncomfortable. The bed was a good size and there was a large TV, WiFi etc. The room was specious and clean and also had a sea view. The food was really good here especially the breakfast. Sometimes the restaurant did not open for dinner but the chef would be flexible for a small party, which is great. The pools were a great addition to this hotel as well at the fitness centre. There's even a Jacuzzi on the rooftop, which was really fun.

The hotel is definitely worth its five star rating, although it is expensive. The hotel is ideal for a combined city and beach holiday. This hotel is set so close to the beach that you will not need to walk too far. Additionally there are wonderful views from the top of the hotel, reminding you of what a great location you are staying in. The bed in the room didn't have the softest linen and the pillows weren't great either, but the bed itself was comfortable and everything was in good condition. There is WiFi in the room as well as a nice big television.The hotel had a lovely bar/restaurant overlooking Barcelona, but be warned that it can be expensive. Also note that the restaurant is not available every day, but they can be flexible in providing catering on request. The hotel has some great facilities. There are two pools, a rooftop Jacuzzi and a fitness centre all within the hotel.

The hotel is worth the higher price. It has a rooftop pool as well as a ground-level pool and is perfect for either a beach vacation or city break. Great location only a minute or so from beaches in both directions and close to Port Olympic as well as a fitness park two minutes away from the hotel. Beautiful, luxurious bathrooms that are in an excellent condition. All amenities are available in the rooms, and those on the higher floors have the luxury of stunning sea views. Wow! The food was really nice with affordable breakfast available at a nearby cafe if you prefer. The restaurant wasn't always open but breakfast was lovely. The hotel has two pools a fitness centre and also a jacuzzi on the rooftop.