# Entity A

The facilities of this hotel are really great and therefore it's one of the most enjoyable stays. The location of the hotel was rather disappointing and not a very scenic area of Hong Kong. The hotel's rooms are adequate, although perhaps a little darkly lit. The rooms are clean and quiet, although for a more updated room it is worth booking a room on the Club floor. There is nothing the staff find to be too much trouble. The buffet breakfast is absolutely amazing and really varied. In addition the restaurant provides some really good food that's worth trying. The hotel has a bi-hourly bus shuttle service available to guests. It is not worth getting a hotel with a pool as it is often not the climate for swimming etc.

The Metropark Kowloon is very cost effective and ideal for those who need to crash after a hard day's sightseeing and travelling. This hotel isn't in the best location but there were some bargains to be found at a nearby market. There are bus routes however so that is a bonus. The hotel room was spotless and quiet therefore peaceful. All amenities were sufficient enough for all needs and the size was fine. TThe breakfast buffet provided at the hotel had a lot of variety. The food in the restaurant is good and the Sip Sip bar had a wide range of cocktails on offer. There was free internet connection provided here and the 30 minute minibus service was really great and also free.

This hotel has two restaurants, is perfect for resting, is great quality and a good price. The hotel has a Club area which is comfortable and offers tea or coffee and newspapers on offer. Great for sightseeing or shopping but the facilities at the hotel are good too. The location is okay, it is not the nicest of areas but there are some attractions that are walking distance from the hotel. This hotel's rooms are clean and comfortable and include amenities in the bathrooms. The lighting isn't as bright as it could be. The hotel buffet looks very nice and the breakfast was plentiful. Coffee, tea, and drinks were also available and the restaurant food was delicious. The hotel provides many amenities for its guests, including free Wi-Fi and a mini bus shuttle service.