# Entity B

The hotel is definitely recommended for others, but it is a little remote for some. The hotel is located on the Grand Canal and opposite the Santa Lucia train station. It is in a less buys part of the city but a gentle walk to all of the tourist sights and boat routes. The rooms in the hotel have a view of the canal. The rooms are light and well maintained. The bathrooms have twin basins which is ideal for a couple. The staff at the hotel were helpful and knowledgeable. The breakfast provided by the hotel was adequate. The elevator in this hotel was small but it was really well-maintained.

The hotel is great and very recommendable. It is a little bit of a distance from St Mark's but otherwise very good. The location of this hotel is great. It's within walking distance of most tourist attractions but isn't far from the railway station if it's needed. It is close to the main boat routes as well. Views of the canal from the rooms are amazing. The rooms are gorgeous and the room also had a twin basin bathroom which was a great bonus. The staff will make any visit to this hotel really memorable. Every member of staff have loads of great advice and recommendations for the local area from sight-seeing to restaurants, and even provided a map with best routes, Here at the hotel the breakfast food that's served is okay. The hotel had a small elevator but it was in good condition.

This is a gem of a hotel that is highly recommended if you want a memorable stay. It is easy enough to walk to main tourist attractions from this hotel but there are transport links that are close to the hotel should your feet get tired. Overall this is a great and lovable location. There were great views from the blue room in this hotel and it had plenty of room inside. There are gorgeous chandeliers provide a luxurious touch. The staff are very welcoming here, and are well equipped to provide guests with directions and recommendations. Very helpful at all times, and do everything they can to make each guests's stay memorable. The breakfast food at the hotel was okay. A small, yet well maintained elevator in this hotel.