# Entity B

The resort will have you wanting to keep coming back because it is really relaxing and welcoming. The hotel was a short taxi ride away from the town centre. It was quite a drive to Duval Street and this was rather expensive in a taxi. The room was beautiful and has amazing views. With regards to the bed in the room it had great quilted bedding. You could not wish for better staff service here because it is five-star. They were really helpful as well as friendly and welcoming. There are some great salt pools where you can sip some cocktails and achieve some peace and tranquillity. The price is quite steep however there are four amazing pools and an outdoor bar, so would definitely come back again.

The hotel resort is incredibly relaxing and a home away from home. The only downside is that it is quite expensive. This is a great tropical location but a taxi ride is usually required to get to most places. The hotel provides an ocean view to rooms on the upper floor. Also worth noting is the quality of the room's bedding. The staff were very welcoming and courteous and are highly recommended. The hotel provides cocktails in one of their three salt pools. The hotel has some pleasing features such as four swimming pools and porches areas, but the price can be expensive even if booked in advance.

A resort with the perfect mix of relaxation, and a chance to catch up on some well needed sleep. This hotel is situated a short drive away from the busier, tourist areas that can be taken via taxi. However, the taxi to the downtown area is quite expensive. Ocean views were only available from the upper rooms due to the foliage but the cottages are great with really impressive bedding and the grounds are gorgeous. There are even little porches to enjoy. The staff was great. They were friendly and very helpful and went out of their way to make their guests feel at home. The hotel has little porches and you can relax in one or all of the four pools which also include an outdoor bar.