# Entity A

It's a good hotel and would definitely recommend as well as return for another stay. The hotel is in a perfect location in the old quarter of Istanbul. The hotel is within minutes of the Blue Mosque and the Grand Bazaar, along with many other traditional and historic places in Sultanahmet. The rooms here are cosy and on the small side but always very clean and comfortable enough. The staff were knowledgeable about the local area. The breakfast was fit for a king so that's definitely recommended. There was nothing not to like especially with breakfast on an open terrace. The hotel provides complimentary internet access in the reception.

The hotel was a wonderful boutique style and there were some pleasant surprises provided such as wines, fresh fruits and transport provided to the hotel. Highly recommended. Everything is within walking distance from the hotel here including the public transportation, which you can take to get to the main street. The rooms in the hotel were a little small but clean and comfortable. There is no WiFi available in the room and not a lot of room for storage. The staff are so helpful and always willing to help out with their polite manners. The hotel provides a great breakfast and both breakfast and dinner can be enjoyed at the rooftop dining area. There was an unexpected bonus to this hotel and that is the reception area provides guests with free internet access.

A highly recommended hotel that goes above and beyond for its customers, including arranged transfers to the airport and fruits and wine. With only a 5 minute walk to places like the Grand Bazzar or the center of Istanbul's old city, views of the Bosphorus this hotel sits in the old quarter and isn't far from popular tourist spots. It's rooftop terrace also offers views of the Golden Horn and the Blue Mosque and the sunsets are amazing from there. Although the size of the rooms here are small, they are well furnished, clean and comfortable. The only downside to the rooms at this hotel are that there is no wireless internet available unless you're in the lobby, and the rooms can seem quite dark to be in. The staff was okay. They were polite and helpful when they needed to be. The breakfast was Kingly. Very good. Having free WiFi in the lobby was a pleasant surprise.