# Entity A

The hotel is situated about five minutes away from the airport and offers a free shuttle service to the downtown area at twenty minutes past the hour. The two-bedroom suite in this hotel was stunning and really impressive. There were lots of nice features such as granite worktops, marble flooring, stainless steel appliances for guest use, and the bathroom featured Jacuzzi tubs and a really big walk-in shower. The breakfast passes only included the fruit and bread. The parking facility at the hotel cost $18 which is expensive, and the water at the hotel was discoloured and riddled with seaweed.

The hotel in Key West has lots of water activities to take part in. There is a small sandy beach nearby but as this hotel is not in the heart of all the action the hotel themselves provide a free shuttle service downtown. The rooms of the hotel were really good. They had a view of the water across two balconies. The rooms had a large living area, dining area and kitchen facility. The kitchen has granite counters and stainless steel appliances, all high end. The bathroom was fantastic with jetted hot tubs and a walk-in shower. The staff were good at this hotel and very accommodating to you. The breakfast was pretty limited as a Rewards member who receives a breakfast pass - the hotel only supplied fruit and bread areas without even including the typical powdered eggs. The parking is $18 at this hotel and its water looks dirty, even full of seaweed.

This Marriott is nice and comfortable. There are lots of water activities but no private beach. Perfectly located to the airport as it is just a quick car ride away. Although it is not in the heart of the city, there is regular transportation via the free shuttle service. Remarkable rooms that provide stunning waterfront views. Each room is extremely spacious and there is the option of a Jacuzzi bath tub as well as a shower. The rooms are quite pricey, and it is worth upgrading to experience the luxury of a beach facing or poolside room with a balcony. The staff was very nice and the management was extremely courteous. Highly priced parking at this hotel, and the water provided is particularly dirty.