# Entity A

The hotel is decent and a great choice if looking for a cheap, clean, and secure place to stay. The hotel is close to the Grand Bazaar, Blue Mosque and the tram lines for transport around the city. The rooms are pretty comfortable but this room in particularly constantly had smoke blowing up from the lobby. The staff at the hotel provided a good service. The hotel had breakfast included in the price of the stay. One thing to note with the hotel is that there is only a one way transfer, so you will have to pay for either the pick up or the drop off to the airport.

The hotel is cheap, clean and has good security. This hotel is situated in a really convenient location for those who wish to see some of the grand sites this place has to offer, whether it's the bazaar or religious sites. The rooms in the hotel are comfortable, although cigarette fumes often drifted into the surrounding rooms. The staff will provide a really great service at this hotel. The breakfast is included in the excellently valued price. Unfortunately the one-way transfer provided is a slight inconvenience but it's not a big problem because it is actually quite cheap.

This hotel is a great choice for those looking for a cheap stay in a clean and secure hotel/hostel. Excellent location for those wanting to explore. This hotel is not only on a quiet street for those that want to relax, but it is conveniently close to the main sights as well as the seashore, where guests can enjoy a good run. Very comfortable rooms, however there is an issue with cigarette smoke from the lobby drifting into the rooms. Breakfast came with the stay. The airport transfer pickup costs are extra but they are cheap.