# Entity B

This is a perfect hotel for any type of stay and you will want to keep coming back for the tranquillity, unbeatable price and the quality. The hotel is very close to the Boston public gardens and the Arlington stop of the T line. The rooms are smaller in size but are decorated with a homely charm. The staff at the hotel were professional and also rectified any problems that occurred. The hotel 's Christmas Tea was particularly enjoyable, as well as the famous seafood available in the restaurant. The hotel itself has elevators that malfunctioned repeatedly while staying here, including stopping between floors after electricity completely cut out.

The hotel was available with a deal through Priceline, but there were some maintenance issues that tarnished the stay a little. In general, a great place to stay for a trip to Boston. The location of the hotel is great for accessing nearby attractions and places to eat. Newly updated rooms, with upgrades on offer for guests to choose if they want to. The upgraded rooms in particular are an excellent size and there is wireless internet for guests to enjoy. Staff at the hotel is very helpful and always available to answer questions. They are very professional and make you feel comfortable. There are plenty of food choices here including seafood. There is lunch provided in the hotel's restaurant too. The hotel's elevators seemed to be malfunctioning a lot.

This hotel is perfect for a mixed business/pleasure stay in Boston at any time of the year or season. It is reminiscent of vintage class when quality was key and mattered most. Travel the world and come back, this may be the favorite place. With a central location, the hotel is really convenient for the Arlington subway stop, and the Boston Common. If you politely request you can get a really great room on the eighth floor which is a King room. It's really big and has free breakfasts and appetisers as well as WiFi internet. Reasonable service at this hotel, with many members of staff very attentive to their guests. The security team were not so helpful but overall the staff seemed quite professional. Food-wise, the hotel does have, The Whiskey Bar, a hotel restaurant and seafood. They also had a special treat of Christmas Tea. The elevators were not working properly and kept getting stuck between floors.