# Entity B

The hotel is good value for money and in a secure part of the city. The hotel is in an industrial but safe area not too far from the city centre. The hotel had air conditioned rooms with a mini bar and a view of the Sagrada Familia, but they needed a small touch up. The cleaning staff made the hotel an incredibly clean environment. There was a complimentary mini bar included, although it was not restocked. The breakfast served a selection of pastries, cheese and breads. The towels in the hotel are too firm.

This hotel will provide a pleasant experience at a four-star rate as expected. It is good value for money and it delivers on every stay. This is an optimal location because you can easily access restaurants by foot as well as public transport for quicker access further afield. Inside the room there are great views and it is of a medium size. There is a free minibar included as well as air conditioning to make the room even more comfortable. The morning buffets were really tasty and featured plenty of pastries, breads and cheeses. You will find there are plenty of choices for even fussiest of eaters. If you don't mind cardboard towels and industrialized areas, this is the hotel for you.

This is an excellent hotel with good value and you get a 4-star hotel experience. The area feels very safe as well. . The location isn't particularly nice to look at it as it's industrial, however it is short walking distance to many of the main attractions in this area and the metro. The city centre is in close proximity also, when using public transport. These rooms are to a high quality. great for comfort and they have excellent views from the window. Everything needed is there to enjoy a quick stay. The cleaning staff were really great at what they do as they leave all areas immaculate they're so thorough. Good breakfast buffet that offers a selection of foods to start your day, catering for even the most fussy of eaters. Decent hotel, however the towels provided are of a poor quality and there are little views on offer due to it being in an industrial area.