# Entity A

A unique hotel that provides a similarly unique and unforgettable experience. It can't be recommended highly enough for the convenience and friendliness here. The location is superb. It had absolutely in the center of everything you could need. The hotel rooms are decorated sophistically, although the TV was very small. Exceptional service; every member of staff on front of house were super polite, courteous and so thoughtful. Brasserie Jo, the restaurant attached to the hotel, is excellent with delicious food, charming atmosphere , and the best service. There's a good gym in this hotel. It is on the fifth floor and features some cardio machines.

The Colonnade Hotel is a great place to stay and highly recommended. A comfortable and unique atmosphere. The hotel is situated centrally in Boston for activities. It is in close proximity to a number of locales, such as a T connection and the Hynes Convention Centre. The rooms in this hotel are really comfortable with nice features such as feather pillows and comforter. The television was however on the small side. The hotel's staff are fantastic, from arrival to departure. They are helpful and a good face for the hotel. The front desk staff, the concierge Jerry Good and the doorman Norman Maines are of particular note. The restaurant, Brasserie Jo is excellent with delicious food. The hotel has a gym that is usable for guests.

This hotel comes highly recommended, leaving visitors wanting to come and stay again. From the beginning to the end of a visit, this hotel provides an exceptional experience in every aspect. The hotel is close to the central activities of the city with the Convention Center nearby. The decor of the rooms are to a good standard, with very comfortable bedding. However, the size of the TV is quite small in comparison to other hotels. From check-in to check out the staff was fantastic. They were thoughtful, and polite and always courteous. Norman, the doorman, Jerry, the concierge right through to the front desk staff were all particularly outstanding. The hotel's restaurant, Brasserie Jo, is very good . It has a great atmosphere and food is provided with great service. This hotel provides a decent sized gym which has a variety of cardio machines on offer for a varied work out.